So back to angular, let's connect to angular and fetch the post from there and
I want to do that in the posts service here in get posts. In get posts, I want to reach out to my
backend, fetch the posts, store them in posts here and then fire my update listener to inform everyone interested
in my app, for now the post list component that we got new posts. So I kick this off in post list component
and I handle the response but actually in two separate parts which makes sense because fetching the posts
is an asynchronous task, it will take a couple of seconds or milliseconds.
So in get post, I want to send an http request and sending http requests
thankfully is very easy with angular because it has a built-in http client. To use that client,
we need to unlock it first and we do unlock things in the app module, there we need to import something
from the angular package, I'll import my http client from @angular/common/http,
that is the package path we want to use.
Now actually we have to import the http client module here, excuse me.
So with the http client module imported in the app module, we have to add it to the imports array to
really unlock this feature
and now we can use that http client in our components or services
and yes, we could use it directly here in that component but I want to centralize this task in my service,
it's not directly related to the template or to the UI of that specific component,
we maybe want to use it in other parts of the app too,
so centralizing such http calls in services makes a lot of sense. Now to use this in this posts service,
we need to inject the angular http client into the service and that's important to know.
You can inject things into services too, not just in components and you inject by using the constructor
here too
because it is a normal class after all and we want to inject that http client,
so we need to import it first,
so let's add an import statement and import http client from @angular/common/http, like this. Now
we're importing that,
now we can inject it and I will already and automatically bind it to a private property by adding the
private keyword. I'll name it http but you could name it http client, whatever you want.
Important is the type, this allows angular to find out what we want as an argument here and the type is the
http client we just imported,
now we can use it in get posts and I will remove the return statement for now.
Here I will use this local http property, this http and as you can see, we got a couple of methods
there, for sending a get request, a post request,
now here we want to use a get request.
By the way on our express backend, we haven't specified that we only handle get requests here,
this is something we'll add later but get request does reach this route as you could verify in the
browser because we send get requests by default if we enter a url there and therefore let's send a
get request from the angular app too with the get method. Now this get method expects a path to our
backend, to our server,
so here we simply enter http/localhost 3000 and I will show you how to easily replace this with
a more dynamic solution later in the course /api/posts, so exactly the path we're targeting
here in the browser,
you can of course also copy it from there and simply enter it here.
Now this alone won't do anything though,
the angular http client
uses observables.
You remember you learned about them in the last course module and it especially uses an observable which
won't do anything and it won't even send the request which it wraps
if you don't listen to it because if you're not interested in the response, why would it send the request?
Now to listen, you need to
well subscribe and now here's one other piece of information, you don't need to store that subscription
and unsubscribe from it in ngOnDestroy,
this would be available on services too by the way
but you don't need to do that because for observables connected to features built into angular like
the http client, this unsubscription will be handled for you by angular.
So here we subscribe and we can pass three arguments here,
the first one for new data,
the second one for errors and the third one when it completes.
Now we're interested in new data which will be the response and we probably also want to add error handling,
though we will do that later in the course,
for now let's focus on the positive case.
Let's add a function that gets executed whenever we get a response and in this function,
we will actually get back the body of this response already.
The angular http client will give us access to this body immediately,
if you want a different behavior, you can change this and you can learn more about the in-depth features
of that http client
in my complete guide for example. Now the get request or the get method here is a generic method actually
and we can clearly specify which type of value we will get back, for example and post array, though
that would be wrong because if you take a closer look at your backend, the body of the response will
be this object.
So actually we will get back an object which has a message property which is of type string and which
has a post property which is of type posts
array, we can specify that here too. We'll get back an object with a message property that has a string value
and a post property that is a list of posts.
Just one important addition,
the posts definition, the model changed a bit, on the backend
our posts also have an ID so maybe we should also add this to our frontend model,
there I now add an ID field like that.
This means that when we're creating a new post down there, we're missing this,
I'll simply fix this by setting ID null there because we have no ID, it wasn't generated on the server
yet,
I will therefore just add an empty ID but we'll come back to posting
post later,
back to getting posts. Now we defined which format our data will have
and this helps us because now here where we get our posts data, we actually get typescript support and
IDE support and for example my IDE knows that we have a message in a posts property on the response data.
I'm interested in the posts and I actually want to store them in my posts variable here, so we can say
this posts equal to the posts we're fetching from the post data.
No need to duplicate this by the way, it's coming from the server,
we can't accidentally change it on the server,
there is no such connection,
it was part of a http response.
So now we're setting the posts to the posts coming from the server,
we can do this because we know that they will have the exact same format and structure.
Now if you we're wondering what happens with the json thing, it was json format,
don't we need to change that back to javascript.
Well this is done for us by the get method already, so it extracts and formats the data and we can now
just assign it like this.
Now there is one thing we need to do,
we need to inform our app and the other parts of our app about this update, so I will call this posts
updated next and here, I will pass a copy of this post for the same reasons as before so that we can't
edit our posts in the service.
Now we should have an app that actually works,
the one problem we have is that we see it down there, get posts now doesn't return anything
but in the past in posts list, we actually expected to get back posts, well we can simply change
this now. We weren't getting back posts anyways and now we simply just trigger that http request whenever
post list component is loaded and that of course means that for now, we can only fetch new posts if we
reload the page but we'll also change this later but we'll trigger this http request and since we
have the subscription, we should also be able to render the posts once they're there.
So now let's save this again and recompile
and now let's try this out by visiting our angular app again,
so now not localhost 3000 but localhost 4200.
Here we don't actually see anything, now
this actually is related to an error
we can see if we open the developer tools, no access control allow origin header is present on the
requested resource.
Now what's that all about?